India is set to launch its second lunar mission - if successful, it will become the fourth country to make a soft landing on the Moon's surface.

Only the US, China and the former Soviet Union have been able to do so.

The $150m mission - Chandrayaan-2 - aims to gather data on water, minerals and rock formations on the Moon.

The lander and rover are expected to touch down near the lunar south pole in early September, becoming the first ever spacecraft to land in that region.

The chief of the Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro), K Sivan, said it was "the most complex space mission ever to be undertaken by the agency".

The Indian-made satellite is scheduled to be launched at 02:51 local time on Monday (21:21 GMT Sunday) from Sriharikota space station on India's eastern coast.

How to cook curry and get a spacecraft into Mars orbit
India puts 'lightest satellite' in orbit
What does China want to do on the Moon's far side?
The country's first lunar mission in 2008 - Chandrayaan-1 - did not land on the lunar surface, but it carried out the first and most detailed search for water on the Moon using radars.

What is this mission all about?
Chandrayaan-2 (Moon vehicle 2) will attempt a soft landing near the little-explored south pole of the Moon.

The mission will focus on the lunar surface, searching for water and minerals and measuring moonquakes, among other things.

India is using its most powerful rocket, the Geosynchronous Satellite Launch Vehicle Mark III (GSLV Mk-III), in this mission. It weighs 640 tonnes (almost 1.5 times the weight of a fully-loaded 747 jumbo jet) and at 44 metres (144ft) is as high as a 14-storey building.

The spacecraft weighs 2,379kg (5,244lb) and has three distinct parts: an orbiter, a lander and a rover.

The orbiter, which has a mission life of a year, will take images of the lunar surface, and "sniff" the tenuous atmosphere.

The lander (named Vikram, after the founder of Isro) weighs about half as much, and carries within its belly a 27kg Moon rover with instruments to analyse the lunar soil. In its 14-day life, the rover (called Pragyan - wisdom in Sanskrit) can travel up to a half a kilometre from the lander and will send data and images back to Earth for analysis.

"India can hope to get the first selfies from the lunar surface once the rover gets on its job," Dr Sivan said.

A new frontier for India's space programme
By science writer Pallava Bagla

A soft landing on another planetary body - a feat achieved by just three other countries so far - would be a huge technological achievement for Isro and India's space ambitions.

It would pave the way for future Indian missions to land on Mars and an asteroid. More importantly, it would open up the possibility of India sending astronauts to the Moon. India hopes to carry out a manned space flight by 2022.

India also wants to assert itself as a space power to be reckoned with - and national pride is riding high as it aims to hoist its flag on the surface of the Moon.

A successful mission to the Moon would also be a win for India's ambitious space agency, which has had a string of successes recently.

